---
title: diagrams.D2
description: Returns an SVG diagram object from the given D2 markup using the specified options.
categories: []
keywords: []
action:
  aliases: []
  related: []
  returnType: diagrams.SVGDiagram
  signatures: ['diagrams.D2 MARKUP [OPTIONS]']
toc: true
---

{{< new-in v0.143.0 >}}

Useful in a [code block render hook], the `diagrams.D2` function returns an SVG diagram object from the given [D2] markup using the specified options.

[D2]: https://d2lang.com/
[code block render hook]: /render-hooks/code-blocks/

```go-html-template
{{ $markup := `x -> y` }}
{{ $options := dict "scale" 1.5 "padding" 10 }}
{{ $d := diagrams.D2 $markup $options }}
{{ $d.Wrapped }}
```

## Methods

The SVG diagram object has the following methods:

Wrapped
: (`template.HTML`) Returns the SVG child elements wrapped in an `svg` element.

Inner
: (`template.HTML`) Returns the SVG child elements without a wrapping `svg` element, allowing you to create your own wrapper.

Width
: (`int`) Returns the diagram width in pixels.

Height
: (`int`) Returns the diagram height in pixels.

ViewBox
: (`string`) Returns the diagram view box in pixels.

## Options

The `diagrams.D2` function takes an options map with zero or more of the following options:

darkTheme
: (`string`) The D2 theme to use if the system is in dark mode. This value is case-insensitive. See [this list] of available themes. Default is `Dark Flagship Terrastruct`.

lightTheme
: (`string`) The D2 theme to use if the system is in light mode or has no preference. This value is case-insensitive. See [this list] of available themes. Default is `Neutral Default`.

minify
: (`bool`) Whether to minify the SVG elements. Adjust the minification parameters in your [site configuration]. Default is `true`.

padding
: (`int`) The number of pixels with which to pad each side of the diagram. This value must be within the bounds of 0 and 1000, inclusive. Default is `0`.

scale
: (`float`) How much to reduce or enlarge the diagram. Values less than 1 reduce the diagram, while values greater than 1 enlarge the diagram. This value must be greater than 0 and less than or equal to 100. Default is `1`.

sketch
: (`bool`) Whether to render the diagram as a sketch. Default is `false`.

[site configuration]: /getting-started/configuration/#configure-minify
[this list]: https://d2lang.com/tour/themes/

## Render hook

Create a [code block render hook] to generate diagrams from D2 markup within fenced code blocks:

{{< code file=layouts/_default/_markup/render-codeblock-d2.html copy=true >}}
{{- $class := printf "d2 svg-container %s" (or .Attributes.class "") | strings.TrimSpace }}
{{- with diagrams.D2 .Inner .Attributes }}
  <div
    {{- with $class }} class="{{ . }}" {{- end }}
    {{- with $.Attributes.id }} id="{{ . }}" {{- end }}
    {{- with $.Attributes.title }} title="{{ . }}" {{- end -}}
  >
    <svg
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
      xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
      preserveAspectRatio="xMinYMin meet"
      viewBox="{{ .ViewBox }}"
      width="{{ .Width }}"
      height="{{ .Height }}"
    >
      {{ .Inner }}
    </svg>
  </div>
{{- end -}}
{{< /code >}}

The render hook above accepts three options:

class
: (`string`) One or more CSS classes to append to the hardcoded `class` attribute of the outer `div` element. The hardcoded `class` atttribute of the outer `div` element is `d2 svg-container`.

id
: (`string`) The `id` attribute of the outer `div` element.

title
: (`string`) The `title` attribute of the outer `div` element.

### Basic examples

To create a D2 diagram using the default options:

````text
```d2
direction: right
A -> B -> C
```
````

```d2
direction: right
A -> B -> C
```

To enlarge and render as a sketch, specify the options as comma-separated key-value pairs wrapped within braces:

````text
```d2 {scale=1.25, sketch=true}
direction: right
C -> D -> E
```
````

```d2 {scale=1.25, sketch=true}
direction: right
C -> D -> E
```

To change the theme and add one or more CSS classes to the outer `div` element:

````text
```d2 {lightTheme="Earth Tones", class="foo bar"}
direction: right
E -> F -> G
```
````

```d2 {lightTheme="Earth Tones", class="foo"}
direction: right
E -> F -> G
```

In the last example, note that we are specifying options that are specific to the `diagrams.D2` function as well as options that are specific to the code block render hook. The order and case of the key-value pairs is irrelevant.

## Other examples

````text
```d2 {scale=1.25}
direction: right
Database -> S3: backup
Database -> S3
Data
```
````

```d2 {scale=1.25}
direction: right
Database -> S3: backup
Database -> S3
Database -> S3: backup
```

````text
```d2
High Mem Instance -> EC2 <- High CPU Instance: Hosted By
```
````

```d2
High Mem Instance -> EC2 <- High CPU Instance: Hosted By
```

````text
```d2
direction: right
X: {tooltip: Total abstinence is easier than perfect moderation}
Y: {tooltip: Gee, I feel kind of LIGHT in the head now,\nknowing I can't make my satellite dish PAYMENTS!}
X -> Y:move your cursor\nover the circles
```
````

```d2
direction: right
X: {tooltip: Total abstinence is easier than perfect moderation}
Y: {tooltip: Gee, I feel kind of LIGHT in the head now,\nknowing I can't make my satellite dish PAYMENTS!}
X -> Y:move your cursor\nover the circles
```

````text
```d2
direction: right
plankton -> formula: will steal
formula: {
  label: ""
  equation: |latex
    \\lim_{h \\rightarrow 0 } \\frac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h}
  |
}
```
````

```d2
direction: right
plankton -> formula: will steal
formula: {
  label: ""
  equation: |latex
    \\lim_{h \\rightarrow 0 } \\frac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h}
  |
}
```

## Miscellaneous

### Dark mode

While looking at this page, switch your system to dark mode. Notice that the diagrams are now using a dark theme, either the default or as specified in the code block [options](#options).

### Responsive diagrams

Create a CSS ruleset to make your D2 diagrams responsive:

```css
.d2.svg-container > svg {
  max-width: 100%;
  height: auto;
}
```

### Visual Studio Code

Install the [D2 extension] to help you create D2 diagrams when using Visual Studio Code.

[D2 extension]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=terrastruct.d2
